.\" Description:		CID-GTK MAN-PAGE
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2023 Eduardo Moraes <emoraes25@gmail.com>
.\" This file is part of CID (Closed In Directory).
.\"
.\" CID is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CID is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CID.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"


.TH CID-GTK 8 2023-06-11 "CID version 1.2.5" "System Administration"


.SH NAME
cid-gtk \- graphical tool to insert and manage Linux stations in a AD domain.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcid-gtk\fP [-h|--help] [-v|--version]


.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is part of the CID (Closed In Directory) project,
which is a set of bash scripts to automate and optimize the
configuration of a Linux computer in an Active Directory domain
through the \fBsamba\fP(7) suite.

.PP
The \fBcid-gtk\fP tool provides a simple graphical interface that allows you
to manage a Linux system as a workstation within an Active Directory domain.
Options such as join/remove the station from domain, insert/remove domain
users into system local groups, block the logon at the station to a domain
specific user or group, and manage file and printer shares are examples of
the type of management that this program proposes.
The \fBcid(8)\fP utility provides some of these functionality on command line.


.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (-).
A summary of options is included below.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SS HOSTNAME
Before actually performing the \fBJoin the domain\fP option, the program
uses the value of this variable, or the result of the "hostname" command,
to verify that the station name meets the maximum limit of 15 characters
of the NetBIOS API, returning a warning and aborting the operation if it
is not in compliance.

.SS PAM_USER
The value of this variable is used by a CID script executed at each
logon of a domain user to verify if this user that it belongs to
domain admins group, and based on this, adds or removes that user
from the system local groups.

.SS EXPORTED VARIABLES FOR LOGON SCRIPTS

.TP
\fBNETLOGON\fP
.bp
Mount point of the Netlogon share on the system.

.TP
\fBUSERNAME\fP
.bp
Name of the user that are opening session.

.TP
\fBUSERID\fP
.bp
ID of the user that are opening session.

.TP
\fBUSERDOMAIN\fP
.bp
Domain name of the user that is opening session.

.TP
\fBUSERPROFILE\fP
.bp
Home directory path of the user that is opening session.

.TP
\fBUSERSHELL\fP
.bp
Login shell of the user that is opening session.

.TP
\fBGROUPID\fP
.bp
Primary group ID of the user that is opening session.

.TP
\fBUSERGROUP\fP
.bp
Primary group name of the user that is opening session.

.TP
\fBUSERGROUPS\fP
.bp
Group list separated by commas (,) of the user that is opening session.


.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/cid/cid.conf
This file contains parameters that specify the paths of all files and
directories that the CID modifies or queries to provide functionality
similar to that of a Windows workstation to the Linux system in an
Active Directory domain.
The default values for these parameters are filled with the most common
file and directory paths used in most Linux distributions and by the
packages of programs used by CID, such as the \fBsamba\fP(7) and others.
Rarely adjustments will be required in this file.


.SH AUTHOR
Eduardo Moraes, <\fIemoraes25@gmail.com\fP>.

.P
Please send your bug reports, suggested features and comments to the above address.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcid-change-pass-gtk\fP(1), \fBsamba\fP(7), \fBcid\fP(8), \fBpam_mount\fP(8), \fBwinbindd\fP(8)