.\" Description:	CID-CHANGE-PASS MAN-PAGE
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2023 Eduardo Moraes <emoraes25@gmail.com>
.\" This file is part of CID (Closed In Directory).
.\"
.\" CID is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CID is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CID.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"


.TH CID-CHANGE-PASS 1 2023-06-11 "CID version 1.2.5" "User commands"


.SH NAME
cid-change-pass \- command-line utility to help domain users change their passwords.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcid-change-pass\fP [username...] [-h|--help] [-v|--version]


.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is part of the CID (Closed In Directory) project,
which is a set of bash scripts to automate and optimize the
configuration of a Linux computer in an Active Directory domain
through the \fBsamba\fP(7) suite.

.PP
\fBcid-change-pass\fP is a utility to help a domain user change their
password. The user must enter his current password and then the new
password he wants (this may have restrictions according to domain
security policies).
If run as superuser the program must receive one or more
user accounts from the domain as argument.
The \fBcid-change-pass-gtk\fP(1) utility provides the same
functionality in graphical mode.


.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (-).
A summary of options is included below.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.


.SH AUTHOR
Eduardo Moraes, <\fIemoraes25@gmail.com\fP>.

.P
Please send your bug reports, suggested features and comments to the above address.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcid-change-pass-gtk\fP(1), \fBcid\fP(8)