.\" Description:	CID-CHANGE-PASS-GTK MAN-PAGE
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2023 Eduardo Moraes <emoraes25@gmail.com>
.\" This file is part of CID (Closed In Directory).
.\"
.\" CID is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CID is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CID.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"


.TH CID-CHANGE-PASS-GTK 1 2023-06-11 "CID version 1.2.5" "User commands"


.SH NAME
cid-change-pass-gtk \- graph utility (GTK+) to help domain users change their passwords.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcid-change-pass-gtk\fP [username...] [-h|--help] [-v|--version]


.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is part of the CID (Closed In Directory) project,
which is a set of bash scripts to automate and optimize the
configuration of a Linux computer in an Active Directory domain
through the \fBsamba\fP(7) suite.

.PP
The \fBcid-change-pass-gtk\fP utility provides a simple graphical
interface to help a domain user change their password. The user
must enter his current password and the new password he wants
(this may have restrictions according to domain security policies).
If run as superuser the program must receive one or more users
account of the domain as argument.
The \fBcid-change-pass\fP(1) utility provides the same
functionality on the command line.


.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (-).
A summary of options is included below.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.


.SH AUTHOR
Eduardo Moraes, <\fIemoraes25@gmail.com\fP>.

.P
Please send your bug reports, suggested features and comments to the above address.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcid-change-pass\fP(1), \fBcid-gtk\fP(8)